docs/data-sources/network.md, before:

---
page_title: "unifi_network Data Source - unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about an existing UniFi network. Lookup by either id or name.
---

# unifi_network (Data Source)

Retrieves information about an existing UniFi network. Lookup by either id or name.

## Example Usage

### Lookup by Name

```hcl
data "unifi_network" "lan" {
  name = "Default"
}

output "lan_subnet" {
  value = data.unifi_network.lan.subnet
}
```

### Lookup by ID

```hcl
data "unifi_network" "by_id" {
  id = "60a1b2c3d4e5f67890123456"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the network. Specify either id or name.
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Specify either id or name.

### Read-Only

- `dhcp_boot_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP network boot (PXE) is enabled.
- `dhcp_boot_filename` (String) The boot filename provided to clients (DHCP Option 67).
- `dhcp_boot_server` (String) The IP address of the boot server (DHCP Option 66).
- `dhcp_dns` (Set of String) Set of DNS servers provided via DHCP.
- `dhcp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP is enabled on this network.
- `dhcp_gateway` (String) Custom gateway IP address provided via DHCP (Option 3).
- `dhcp_gateway_enabled` (Boolean) Whether a custom gateway is provided via DHCP (Option 3).
- `dhcp_guarding_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP guarding is enabled.
- `dhcp_lease` (Number) The DHCP lease time in seconds.
- `dhcp_ntp` (Set of String) Set of NTP servers provided via DHCP.
- `dhcp_ntp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether NTP servers are provided via DHCP (Option 42).
- `dhcp_relay_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP relay is enabled.
- `dhcp_start` (String) The start of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_stop` (String) The end of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_time_offset_enabled` (Boolean) Whether time offset is provided via DHCP (Option 2).
- `dhcp_unifi_controller` (String) UniFi controller IP address provided via DHCP (Option 43).
- `dhcp_wpad_url` (String) Web Proxy Auto-Discovery (WPAD) URL provided via DHCP (Option 252).
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for this network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the network is enabled.
- `firewall_zone_id` (String) The firewall zone ID associated with this network.
- `igmp_proxy_upstream` (Boolean) Whether this network acts as an IGMP proxy upstream interface.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Whether IGMP snooping is enabled.
- `internet_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether internet access is enabled for this network.
- `intra_network_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether devices on this network can communicate with devices on other networks.
- `ipv6_setting_preference` (String) IPv6 configuration preference (auto, manual).
- `mdns_enabled` (Boolean) Whether mDNS (Bonjour/Avahi) is enabled for this network.
- `nat_enabled` (Boolean) Whether NAT is enabled for this network.
- `network_group` (String) The network group (LAN, WAN, WAN2).
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network (corporate, guest, wan, vlan-only).
- `site_id` (String) The site ID where the network exists.
- `subnet` (String) The subnet in CIDR notation.
- `upnp_lan_enabled` (Boolean) Whether UPnP is enabled on this LAN network.
- `vlan_id` (Number) The VLAN ID for this network.

Commit message:

Add dhcp_dns_enabled and dhcp_tftp_server to network resource
Expose two previously missing DHCP fields:

- dhcp_dns_enabled: explicit boolean for whether DNS servers are
  advertised via DHCP. Previously inferred from whether dhcp_dns was
  non-empty, which prevented explicitly disabling DNS advertisement
  while keeping servers configured. Falls back to true when dhcp_dns
  is set and dhcp_dns_enabled is omitted, preserving existing behavior.

- dhcp_tftp_server: separate TFTP server address (dhcpd_tftp_server),
  previously silently aliased to dhcp_boot_server on every write. Now
  independent. Existing configs unaffected since the field is Optional
  with no Computed behavior.

Also fix acceptance test pre-check using t.Fatal instead of t.Skip
when TF_ACC is unset, which caused device tests to fail rather than
skip in non-acceptance-test runs.

docs/data-sources/network.md, after:

---
page_title: "unifi_network Data Source - unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Retrieves information about an existing UniFi network. Lookup by either id or name.
---

# unifi_network (Data Source)

Retrieves information about an existing UniFi network. Lookup by either id or name.

## Example Usage

### Lookup by Name

```hcl
data "unifi_network" "lan" {
  name = "Default"
}

output "lan_subnet" {
  value = data.unifi_network.lan.subnet
}
```

### Lookup by ID

```hcl
data "unifi_network" "by_id" {
  id = "60a1b2c3d4e5f67890123456"
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the network. Specify either id or name.
- `name` (String) The name of the network. Specify either id or name.

### Read-Only

- `dhcp_boot_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP network boot (PXE) is enabled.
- `dhcp_boot_filename` (String) The boot filename provided to clients (DHCP Option 67).
- `dhcp_boot_server` (String) The IP address of the PXE boot server (DHCP Option 66).
- `dhcp_dns` (Set of String) Set of DNS servers provided via DHCP.
- `dhcp_dns_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DNS servers are provided via DHCP.
- `dhcp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP is enabled on this network.
- `dhcp_gateway` (String) Custom gateway IP address provided via DHCP (Option 3).
- `dhcp_gateway_enabled` (Boolean) Whether a custom gateway is provided via DHCP (Option 3).
- `dhcp_guarding_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP guarding is enabled.
- `dhcp_lease` (Number) The DHCP lease time in seconds.
- `dhcp_ntp` (Set of String) Set of NTP servers provided via DHCP.
- `dhcp_ntp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether NTP servers are provided via DHCP (Option 42).
- `dhcp_relay_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP relay is enabled.
- `dhcp_start` (String) The start of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_stop` (String) The end of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_tftp_server` (String) The TFTP server address (DHCP Option 66 tftp-server-name).
- `dhcp_time_offset_enabled` (Boolean) Whether time offset is provided via DHCP (Option 2).
- `dhcp_unifi_controller` (String) UniFi controller IP address provided via DHCP (Option 43).
- `dhcp_wpad_url` (String) Web Proxy Auto-Discovery (WPAD) URL provided via DHCP (Option 252).
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for this network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the network is enabled.
- `firewall_zone_id` (String) The firewall zone ID associated with this network.
- `igmp_proxy_upstream` (Boolean) Whether this network acts as an IGMP proxy upstream interface.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Whether IGMP snooping is enabled.
- `internet_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether internet access is enabled for this network.
- `intra_network_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether devices on this network can communicate with devices on other networks.
- `ipv6_setting_preference` (String) IPv6 configuration preference (auto, manual).
- `mdns_enabled` (Boolean) Whether mDNS (Bonjour/Avahi) is enabled for this network.
- `nat_enabled` (Boolean) Whether NAT is enabled for this network.
- `network_group` (String) The network group (LAN, WAN, WAN2).
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network (corporate, guest, wan, vlan-only).
- `site_id` (String) The site ID where the network exists.
- `subnet` (String) The subnet in CIDR notation.
- `upnp_lan_enabled` (Boolean) Whether UPnP is enabled on this LAN network.
- `vlan_id` (Number) The VLAN ID for this network.
