docs/resources/network.md, before:

---
page_title: "unifi_network Resource - unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a UniFi network/VLAN configuration.
---

# unifi_network (Resource)

Manages a UniFi network/VLAN configuration.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Create a VLAN network with DHCP
resource "unifi_network" "iot" {
  name         = "IoT Network"
  purpose      = "corporate"
  vlan_id      = 100
  subnet       = "10.0.100.1/24"
  dhcp_enabled = true
  dhcp_start   = "10.0.100.10"
  dhcp_stop    = "10.0.100.254"
  dhcp_dns     = ["8.8.8.8", "8.8.4.4"]
  domain_name  = "iot.local"
}

# Create a VLAN-only network (no routing/DHCP)
resource "unifi_network" "vlan_only" {
  name    = "External VLAN"
  purpose = "vlan-only"
  vlan_id = 200
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the network.
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network. Valid values: 'corporate', 'guest', 'wan', 'vlan-only'.

### Optional

- `dhcp_dns` (Set of String) Set of DNS servers to provide via DHCP (maximum 4). Must be valid IPv4 addresses.
- `dhcp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP is enabled on this network. Defaults to true.
- `dhcp_lease` (Number) The DHCP lease time in seconds. Defaults to 86400 (24 hours).
- `dhcp_start` (String) The start of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_stop` (String) The end of the DHCP IP range.
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for this network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the network is enabled. Defaults to true.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Whether IGMP snooping is enabled. Defaults to false.
- `network_group` (String) The network group. Defaults to 'LAN'.
- `subnet` (String) The subnet in CIDR notation (e.g., '10.0.100.0/24').
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `vlan_id` (Number) The VLAN ID for this network. Must be between 1 and 4095.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the network.
- `site_id` (String) The site ID where the network is created.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Networks can be imported using their ID:

```shell
terraform import unifi_network.example 60a1b2c3d4e5f67890123456
```

Commit message:

Add feature-complete DHCP and network options to unifi_network
Adds comprehensive DHCP option support:
- DHCP NTP servers (Option 42) with dhcp_ntp_enabled and dhcp_ntp
- DHCP Gateway override (Option 3) with dhcp_gateway_enabled and dhcp_gateway
- DHCP Boot/PXE (Options 66/67) with dhcp_boot_enabled, dhcp_boot_server, dhcp_boot_filename
- DHCP Relay with dhcp_relay_enabled
- DHCP Time Offset (Option 2) with dhcp_time_offset_enabled
- DHCP UniFi Controller (Option 43) with dhcp_unifi_controller
- DHCP WPAD (Option 252) with dhcp_wpad_url
- DHCP Guarding with dhcp_guarding_enabled

Adds network access and routing options:
- internet_access_enabled - Control internet access for network
- intra_network_access_enabled - Control inter-network communication
- nat_enabled - Control NAT for network
- mdns_enabled - mDNS/Bonjour support
- upnp_lan_enabled - UPnP on LAN
- igmp_proxy_upstream - IGMP proxy upstream interface
- firewall_zone_id - Associate network with firewall zone
- ipv6_setting_preference - IPv6 configuration preference

Updates network data source with matching read-only attributes.

Includes acceptance tests for all new DHCP options and network
access controls. Fixes test IP address calculations to match
dynamically generated subnets (VLAN ID % 256).

docs/resources/network.md, after:

---
page_title: "unifi_network Resource - unifi"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Manages a UniFi network/VLAN configuration.
---

# unifi_network (Resource)

Manages a UniFi network/VLAN configuration.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# Create a VLAN network with DHCP
resource "unifi_network" "iot" {
  name         = "IoT Network"
  purpose      = "corporate"
  vlan_id      = 100
  subnet       = "10.0.100.1/24"
  dhcp_enabled = true
  dhcp_start   = "10.0.100.10"
  dhcp_stop    = "10.0.100.254"
  dhcp_dns     = ["8.8.8.8", "8.8.4.4"]
  domain_name  = "iot.local"
}

# Create a VLAN-only network (no routing/DHCP)
resource "unifi_network" "vlan_only" {
  name    = "External VLAN"
  purpose = "vlan-only"
  vlan_id = 200
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `name` (String) The name of the network.
- `purpose` (String) The purpose of the network. Valid values: 'corporate', 'guest', 'wan', 'vlan-only'.

### Optional

- `dhcp_boot_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP network boot (PXE) is enabled. When enabled, DHCP will provide boot options to clients.
- `dhcp_boot_filename` (String) The boot filename to provide to clients (DHCP Option 67). This is the path to the boot file on the TFTP server.
- `dhcp_boot_server` (String) The IP address of the boot server (DHCP Option 66). Also used as the TFTP server address.
- `dhcp_dns` (Set of String) Set of DNS servers to provide via DHCP (maximum 4). Must be valid IPv4 addresses.
- `dhcp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP is enabled on this network. Defaults to true.
- `dhcp_gateway` (String) Custom gateway IP address to provide via DHCP (Option 3). Requires dhcp_gateway_enabled to be true.
- `dhcp_gateway_enabled` (Boolean) Whether to override the default gateway provided via DHCP (Option 3).
- `dhcp_guarding_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP guarding is enabled. Protects against rogue DHCP servers on the network.
- `dhcp_lease` (Number) The DHCP lease time in seconds. Defaults to 86400 (24 hours).
- `dhcp_ntp` (Set of String) Set of NTP servers to provide via DHCP (maximum 2). Must be valid IPv4 addresses.
- `dhcp_ntp_enabled` (Boolean) Whether to provide NTP servers via DHCP (Option 42).
- `dhcp_relay_enabled` (Boolean) Whether DHCP relay is enabled. When enabled, DHCP requests are forwarded to another DHCP server instead of using the built-in server.
- `dhcp_start` (String) The start of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_stop` (String) The end of the DHCP IP range.
- `dhcp_time_offset_enabled` (Boolean) Whether to provide time offset via DHCP (Option 2).
- `dhcp_unifi_controller` (String) UniFi controller IP address to provide via DHCP (Option 43). Used for UniFi device adoption.
- `dhcp_wpad_url` (String) Web Proxy Auto-Discovery (WPAD) URL to provide via DHCP (Option 252).
- `domain_name` (String) The domain name for this network.
- `enabled` (Boolean) Whether the network is enabled. Defaults to true.
- `firewall_zone_id` (String) The firewall zone ID to associate with this network.
- `igmp_proxy_upstream` (Boolean) Whether this network acts as an IGMP proxy upstream interface.
- `igmp_snooping` (Boolean) Whether IGMP snooping is enabled. Defaults to false.
- `internet_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether internet access is enabled for this network. Defaults to true.
- `intra_network_access_enabled` (Boolean) Whether devices on this network can communicate with devices on other networks.
- `ipv6_setting_preference` (String) IPv6 configuration preference. Valid values: 'auto', 'manual'.
- `mdns_enabled` (Boolean) Whether mDNS (Bonjour/Avahi) is enabled for this network.
- `nat_enabled` (Boolean) Whether NAT is enabled for this network. Defaults to true.
- `network_group` (String) The network group. Valid values: 'LAN', 'WAN', 'WAN2'. Defaults to 'LAN'.
- `subnet` (String) The subnet in CIDR notation (e.g., '10.0.100.0/24').
- `timeouts` (Block, Optional) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--timeouts))
- `upnp_lan_enabled` (Boolean) Whether UPnP is enabled on this LAN network.
- `vlan_id` (Number) The VLAN ID for this network. Must be between 1 and 4095.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The unique identifier of the network.
- `site_id` (String) The site ID where the network is created.

<a id="nestedblock--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).
- `delete` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Setting a timeout for a Delete operation is only applicable if changes are saved into state before the destroy operation occurs.
- `read` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours). Read operations occur during any refresh or planning operation when refresh is enabled.
- `update` (String) A string that can be [parsed as a duration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as "30s" or "2h45m". Valid time units are "s" (seconds), "m" (minutes), "h" (hours).

## Import

Networks can be imported using their ID:

```shell
terraform import unifi_network.example 60a1b2c3d4e5f67890123456
```
